# Abstract
The _Drosophila_ olfactory system is highly sterotyped in form and function; olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing specific odorant receptors (ORs) appear in the same location on every antenna and the axons of ORNs expressing the same OR converge on the same antennal lobe glomeruli. Although several transcription factors participate in a combinatorial code specifying OR expression and ORN identity, it is clear several players remain unidentified. To mitigate the challenges of large-scale genetic screening, we propose a two-tiered screening system comprising an initial "pooling" screen that identifies microRNAs (miRNAs) whose tissue-specific over-expression causes a phenotype of interest followed by a more focused secondary screen that uses gene-specific RNAi. As miRNAs inhibit translation or direct the destruction of their target mRNAs, any phenotype observed with miRNA over-expression can be attributed to the loss-of-function of one or more targets. Since miRNA-target pairing is sequence-dependent, predicted targets for miRNAs identified in the initial screen serve as candidates for the secondary RNAi-based screen. These predicted targets can be prioritized by expression pattern, and if multiple miRNAs produce the same phenotype, overlapping target predictions can be given higher priority in the follow-up screen. Since miRNAs are short, miRNA misexpression will likely produce non-biological miRNA-target relationships. Thus, we are using miRNAs as a tool pointing to other genes rather than investigating the function of miRNAs themselves. Here we describe a proof-of-concept two-tiered miRNA-based screen to identify a novel role for the transcription factor Atf3 in the expression of the odorant receptor Or47b.