## Results

### Figure 1: Two-tiered miRNA screening approach
A.Screen flowchart
B. Construction of miRNA library
C. Confirmation of miRNA expression

Two-tiered approach makes use of miRNAs as the primary screen tool. MicroRNA-target pairing is determined via complementary base pairing through a short seed sequence. Using bioinformatic target prediction of the seed sequence of each positive hit in our primary screen provides a list of candidates for a secondary RNAi-based screen. The predicted miRNA targets were set as priority based on expression
pattern, and if multiple miRNAs give the same phenotype, overlapping target predictions are given higher priority in the follow-up screen. The two-tiered system allows to rapidly close in on individual target genes involved in a phenomenon of interest. Schematic representation  of two-tiered miRNA based screen. (Fig 1A).

According to version 17 of miRBase, there are 238 annotated miRNAs in the fly genome (Refer). UAS-miRNA constructs that were previously deposited (refer) as clones with the Drosophila Genomics Resource Center were originally constructed by inserting 400-500 base pairs of DNA surrounding the mature miRNA sequence into the 3’-UTR of DsRed and cloning it into the fly transformation vector pUAST. Essentially, this amounts to the cloning of the equivalent of the pri-miRNA and adding it to the transcript of a fluorescent marker protein.  40 of these UAS-miRNA constructs were modified by adding an attB site into each vector to permit site-specific, unidirectional, and highly efficient recombination of the vector into an attP landing site via the action of the Phi-C integrase (refer). This technique helps to reduce the genomic position effects that often plague over-expression experiments with GAL4 and UAS-lines that are randomly inserted into the genome by P-element mediated transgenesis.

For the rest of the fly miRNAs, modified version of another attB-containing vector called SST13 was used. To prepare this vector for use, we added several restriction sites, inserted DsRed downstream of a 5X UAS sequence, and renamed it pSS-DsRed. For a better fluorescence signal, in some UAS-miRNAs  constructs DsRed was replaced with mCherry. (Fig 1B) For the construction of rest of the library PCR amplification of pri-miRNAs consisting of 400-500 base pairs surrounding each mature miRNA sequence was performed, TA-cloned into the pGEM-T-Easy vector, and subcloned them into one of the pSS constructs. The clone was confirmed by restriction digestion and sequencing. The contructs were microinjected to produce transgenic flies. To confirm miRNA over-expression, the UAS-miRNA fly lines were crossed to GMR-GAL4, which drives expression in the eye. DsRed or mCherry fluorescence was taken as a proxy-indicator of miRNA expression. MicroRNA over-expression was also confirmed by qPCR.(data not shown) (fig 1c)

### Figure 2: Primary screen for regulators of OR expression:
A. Genetic scheme for the screen
B. Brain staining for various miRNA O/E showing loss of Or47b, loss of Or92a, and loss of both
C. Mixed probe in situs confirming the Or47b loss with a couple of miR 33 miR-2a-2/2c miR 986 

To determine if miRNAs play a role in OR expression,  UAS-miRNA library of Drosophila stocks was used for tissue-specific over-expression of specific miRNAs.  The standard GAL4-UAS system was used. (refer) To adapt this system in over-expression experiments and to find a way to visualize a limited but specific population of ORNs, the fusions of OR promoters to GFP were used.  The two OR promoter fusion of Or47b and Or92a neurons were selected because the glomeruli they innervate are large and easy to identify. Or92a neurons project to the VA2 glomerulus whereas Or47b neurons project to the VA1lm glomerulus at the ventrolateral edge of the antennal lobe. (refer) The pebbled-GAL4 driver line, that is expressed in peripheral sensory neurons throughout pupation, with the OR promoter fusion to Or47b and Or92a (refer) was used for the tissue-specific over-expression of miRNAs. Fly brain was immunostained for visualizing any loss of GFP expression.

In two separate rounds the effect of over-expression of miRNA was analysed. The individual miRNAs gave 3 distinct class of tissue specific loss of OR phenotype. (Fig B). We found the list of miRNAs that cause exclusively loss of Or47b, loss of Or92a and loss of both the ORs (Fig 2B and Supplementary).  Of 133 UAS-miRNA lines screened, 20 of the miRNAs were found to be lethal. Some over-expression of miRNAs that caused egg laying deficiency, larve or pupae lethalilty or only few (3-4) sick flies eclosed out were left out of screening.(Supplementary). In order to rule out the false positives, the experiments were reproduced thrice and mixed probe in situ hybridization for Or47b and Or92a were performed. (See materials and methods). The clear loss Or47b transcript by in situ hybridization validates the immunostaining results produced by over-expression of certain miRNAs. (Fig2 c)

