# Abstract

The _Drosophila_ olfactory system is highly sterotyped in both form and function. Not only are olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing specific odorant receptors (ORs) found in the same part of the antennae of every fly, the axons of all ORNs that express the same OR converge on the same glomerulus in the antennal lobe. Although several transcription factors have been implicated in a combinatorial code that specifies OR expression and thus ORN identity, it is clear several players remain unidentified. In an effort to mitigate the time required in large scale genetic screening, we propose a two-tiered screening system comprising an initial "pooling" screen that identifies microRNAs (miRNAs) whose tissue-specific over-expression causes a phenotype of interest followed by a more focused secondary screen that uses gene-specific RNAi. As miRNAs inhibit translation or direct the destruction of their target mRNAs, any phenotype observed with miRNA over-expression can be attributed to the loss-of-function of one or more target mRNAs. Since miRNA-target pairing is sequence-specific, a list of predicted targets for miRNAs identified in the initial screen serves as a list of candidates for the secondary RNAi-based screen. These predicted miRNA targets can be prioritized by expression pattern, and if multiple miRNAs produce the same phenotype, overlapping target predictions can be given higher priority in the follow-up screen.

Since miRNAs are short, miRNA misexpression will likely produce non-biological miRNA-target relationships. Thus, we are using miRNAs as a tool to accelerate genetic screening rather than investigate the function of miRNAs themselves. This two-tiered system allows us to rapidly identify individual target genes involved in a phenomenon of interest. Here we provide a proof-of-concept screen in which we use the overexpression of *Drosophila* miRNAs to identify and validate a novel role for the transcription factor Atf3 in the expression of the odorant receptor Or47b.